All right.
In the last section, we have completed the nav bar component.
In this section, we're going to fetch data based on the trending or top-rated and show it inside the
home page.
So the database we're going to use is a TM be.
So if you go, I want to use Firefox.
Uh, if you use if you go to tlmt be.
Website, and this is my account.
I show you the URL.
It's the movie TV dot org.
If you go there and sign in with your account, it's completely free.
You can just make an account.
And here you can click on this profile button at the top and click on setting.
So here you can have access to your API.
So on the left side, you click on API.
And here you can see your API key.
And also there are some documentations about how to use the API.
Show you some how you can use this database to create.
And get information, for example.
Inside the database, the documentation, for example, if you go to training tab here.
It explained.
You can get the trending for everything, for movies, for TV, for person.
From the last day or to last week.
And then you can also try it yourself.
You can click on Try it.
Out.
And here you can put your API key and choose the media type.
For example, I choose movie.
And for example, I want the last week.
So this is going to show me.
The URL.
I need to send a request.
So the URL is the same website, the movie TV dot org, but API dot and forward slash three trending
movie week.
And you pass your API key.
So for the trending, we use this one for the Fitch rated top rated, it's different.
So you can just see what you can do.
There are a lot of things in the.
Following sections, I'm going to show you how to use the search box and search between the movies as
well.
So this is a documentation.
We don't need it now, but for the API key you need to copy your API key and go back to your Visual
Studio code and create an environmental variable file in the root of your project.
It should be just outside, just next to the for example, tailwind configs.
So you right click here and create a new file and you call this file dot E and V.
Dot's local.
And here.
You just create a variable called API underlying key and you equal this one to that API key that we
have copied.
After creating the environmental value, you need to restart the server.
So you need to start the server.
And it started again using NPN run diff.
Otherwise you don't get the information from the environmental variable.
So now inside the home page and the reason we put the API key in the environmental variable is when
you're uploading your website to the GitHub, this environmental variable is not going to be uploaded,
so your API key is going to be secure.
And also when we deploy our website traversal, we are going to add the this API key in the in the environmental
variable section of the vessel.
So the versa is going to protect our environmental variable.
So inside the home page, inside the app directory and the page that is X, we are going to firstly,
I want to delete all these things.
We don't need them.
We want to create a constant called API.
Underlying key.
And this is going to be equal and this should be capitalized.
This one is equal to process.
That envy.
That API key.
Which is coming from the environmental variables.
So this is the way you get the information from the environmental variable.
And this is going to be protected as well.
So now we have the API key protected.
Now we want to fetch the data.
The way that it works in inside the.
Next year 13.
We don't use use effect or any other hoax to get the data because this is going to be client side.
We want to use the.
Server side for the this home page.
So in order to do that, because we want to request from the API and this is going to be asynchronous.
And we need to wait for the data to comes.
So we need to change this.
A function to asynchronous.
So this is not possible inside the React functional component.
So this is only possible for the next year 30.
And so because they made the server side like this.
So now at the top, we can have our request.
So the way we do that, we just create a constant.
At first we want to get the information from the URL.
So in the URL we have.
The genre.
We want to get the genre.
We want to know that if if it's fetch trending or fetch top rated inside the.
If you remember inside the components, we have used the use search params, but we cannot use it here
because this is the server side component.
Here there is another method and the this inside the next.
Yes.
13.
We can just get the search params here.
So we get this search.
Pram here and now we can just create a constant, we call it genre, and this is going to be equal to
search params dot genre.
And if there is no genre, I just want to just say use.
Fitch.
Trendy.
All right.
So it can be Fitch trending or Fitch top rated.
But if it's not available, this one, you want to use the Fitch Trendy.
And now we want to get the information from the API here using this information and also the API key.
So I'm going to use this a way to fetch.
I call it response.
And the URL is dynamic because we want to have the trending or top rated.
So depending on the genre, we want to change the URL, but there is a base URL.
So the base URL here.
The base URL is this one.
HTTP.
As you can see, the code copilot is suggesting me something.
So that is very useful.
So we have the API dot.
So let me use this one first.
So we're going to use this is the base URL.
And the.
This is for the top rated, so I'm going to delete the rest, actually.
And we create a variable here.
For creating variable, you need to use the dollar sign.
And now we just say if the genre is equal.
To Fitch.
Top rated
if this one is equal to fetch top rated.
I want the URL the rest of it to be movie forward slash top rated.
Otherwise I wanted to be.
Trending all but instead of day, I want to use week the last week.
I want to use the trending in the last week.
And.
So the rest of them.
We are using the API key and also we want to use the language.
English and can we can use the first page.
So let's see.
This is correct.
So this is the fetch.
So I think this is we can delete this one.
Now, let me explain you again.
So we have a base URL, which is common for both top rated and top trending.
If it's top rated, the URL is movie.
Dash.
At top rated.
If it's not, it can be trending because we are using trending.
So it's trending all week.
And also we have passed the API key.
Which is we are getting from here and the language we want to be English and also we want to show the
first page.
And if you want to add the pagination later, you can just work and make this one dynamic as well.
But for now, for simplicity, we just get the first page.
Now there is another option.
Yeah, because this is the we get from the next year, 13.
Next year 13 gives us a couple of options.
So let me show you inside the documentation.
So we go to better that next year's forward slash docs and I'm going to show you the fetch.
Or let's see, we can here find it here.
So for data fetching.
Uh, let's see.
For data fishing, we have different methods.
So after the fishing, we can just fetch it.
Normally, this is going to just fetch the data.
And this is going to cache your data.
For the caching.
We have several options.
For example, we can say every 22nd, ten second cash.
Our data, it means if the one user comes, it's going to cash the data.
But for the next ten second anyone comes to our website is going to use the cash that data from the
from the server not they're not going to get the new data from the API.
So this is going to save you from your API request.
For example, if your data is not.
Uh.
Real time, for example, it's not something that is come every second.
You can just use, for example, revalidate, for example, one day.
In that case, for example, if you for example, especially for the movie trending or other things,
the trending is not going to change every second.
For example, every 3 hours, every every 5 hours you can check and this is going to save your API request.
And the just the the other users use the the the cache inside the server.
So we can use add this option for us.
For example, we can just add this one and there are plenty of other methods.
So we're going to use in other projects.
But for now, we just know that there are some methods you can just.
You don't have any cash or you are all you always cash it.
Or you can revalidate every ten second every.
So I'm going to just copy this one.
So I'm just going to copy this on a comeback to our website and inside the fetch.
Before closing the fetch, I'm going to add a comma here.
So after this back tick, you add a comma and paste it.
This one and this is.
So there was a comma here.
So I'm going to delete one comma.
And then we can just change this revalidation, for example, to 10000 seconds, because the movie,
mostly the movies, they are not going to change every second or every 102nd thousand second, even
this one is.
Uh, very much.
So I just want to show you how we get the data and how we can revalidate using next year 13.
Then we can just.
Change this data and convert it to JSON file and save it inside the data.
And I just want to firstly show the and we get the results and the results would be.
Inside data that results.
And let's console.log.
And just another important things to know is this is a server side and console.log is just showing inside
this server to inside the terminal, not inside the browser.
So when we console.log here.
And we need to go to the browser.
We just refresh the page.
And now we should see the data here.
If the fishing is successful.
And we got the result on the find.
Probably we made some mistakes here.
So let me check again.
So this is the base, your URL.
And we have the genre.
Oh, we didn't.
We got the genre from the premise here.
And then.
Fitch.
Top rated.
This is the URL.
I think.
So let me pause the video and check.
I will be I'll be back when I find every error.
All right.
I find the error, so we just need to connect this one together because of the space here.
It's going to crash like this.
So now we get the results, actually.
You can see that we got an array of results.
With with movies for the.
Their language.
The title We have the poster path.
And we have the overview of the movies.
All right.
So that is working now.
So let me close this.
So we this is okay.
We just need to delete these spaces.
So this is going to make a space and it's a better request.
And the other things we want to do is.
So let's delete the console lock here.
And then we want to check if the result.
If the race is not okay.
So the result has a problem.
We want to.
We want to have some condition and truth and error.
So we just throw an error.
We just right down through.
A new error.
That's the suggestion.
And this is going to throw an error.
Fail to fetch data, for example.
I just add some letters.
Extra letters here.
For the API key.
So this is a bad request.
So now inside our website we should get an error.
So now, for example, if we refresh the page.
We get an error saying fail to fetch data.
So this error is actually is showing inside the.
And inside the development mode, in the production mode, when we the user doesn't see this error,
but instead it's going to see some error effect.
We're going to add that one using the next JZ 13 method, which is going to add an error that is x file
inside the app dot the app directory.
But for now, let's fix this API key.
And now let's continue and show it inside the browser.
So instead of just showing the.
And h one saying home, I'm going to delete this one.
And instead I want to just have a dif here.
So let me create a div.
So I create a diff.
And here.
I want to create another component called the results.
So I want to show the result using that component.
So I'm going to create a component called Result.
Of results that gsx.
And this is going to.
Be a React functional component.
And the things we want to get here.
We want to get the result.
Results.
So each you want to get.
Yeah, we want to get all the results and here we want to map to that results.
So to get that result, map through it, get each result.
And I'm going to.
Uh, let's see.
So here we're going to have a div.
I want to create a div, but this is not suggesting me, so I'm going to create it myself.
Hey.
So now inside this diff, I want to show the results.
And I think we missed one.
Parenthesis here, which is making an error.
Okay.
Now it's correct.
So now inside this tape, I'm going to show the results.
Which is, uh.
For example, I just want to show the result.
That original title.
And this this tip should have a key as well.
So here we just add a.
He.
Which is going to be the result.
Dot ID, which is a unique.
Now we should see the results, but we first we should pass this data.
So here I'm going to import that result component.
So results.
Component, which is coming from that.
Components forward slash result.
And here I'm going to pass the results as a props.
So the result is going to be equal.
To.
Results.
Now, if you go over to our website, we can see the result here.
If you click on top trending, you get the top trending original titles.
And in top rated you get.
The top rated one.
So let's see.
All right, So.
And also, if you go to the home page, we should get the top trending one instead, because when there
is no genre, this is the default is top trending.
All right.
So now we got the information and we can show it inside our home page.
In the next section, we're going to firstly, I want to create the loading.
In fact.
And also I want to handle the error.
So if an error happened, I want to do I don't want a window pops up and say the error.
I want to really show the error inside and we're going to use the features of next year's 13, which
gives us the ability to easily handle the errors and loading effects.
So in the next section, we're going to work on that.
So now let's just save this onto the GitHub using contour shift G by pressing on this plus icon.
And we just add a message which will be fetch.
Data from tm dpi API in the.
Home page.
And let's push it to GitHub and we review what we have done.
Uh, so.
We got to get up.
I close the GitHub now, so I'm going to search IMDB and I'll go to GitHub IMDB.
So now we should see some new commits here.
So we have seven commits now and in the search result in the commits, we see the new commit.
So it didn't work.
Let's refresh the page.
Okay, now we see the new comet.
Fetch data from IMDB API in the home page.
And here we can see that.
And inside the page that GSA, which is our home page.
We have brought the API key, which is inside the environmental variable and the other things.
You see that there is no dot, dot and v dot local file inside the GitHub which is going to protect
our API key.
And.
We have changed this function to asynchronous, which is going to be a server side component for each
request.
And we just got the genre from using the search params, which is the method in next year.
13 in the server side pages.
So we got the genre and we fit the database and the genre.
From this URL, which is dynamic based on the genre.
And also we have used this next revalidate revalidate V and Re, we revalidate every 10000 seconds,
which is going to help to save the API.
And here we pass the error.
And if there is an error happens, we throw an error.
And in the next section, I'm going to show you how to make a message for the error inside our website
using next next year 13.
And we converted our data to JSON and we got the result and we passed the result to a new component
which we are creating here.
So this component results that we can use in many cases we can use later as well.
When we are searching, we are adding the search ability.
So this is the good way to use React as you create components and we can reuse it many times.
So we got the result and we mapped through it.
We got each result and we show only the original title.
So that was it for the fishing data.
So I highly recommend you read this documentation from the next year, the fetch data, the fundamentals
and re validating the data.
They have different methods and also at.
How to fish, how to catch.
So.
And we are working on a different methods, for example, for the search.
I'm not going to revalidate.
I'm going to use the no cash method.
We always get the fresh data from the API.
So I'm going to show you different methods of fishing in this project.
So that was it for the fetching data.
In the next section, we're going to handle the error.